# BRANCHING-SETS

A biological pathway is a series of actions among molecules in a cell that leads to a certain product or a change in the cell. Such a pathway can trigger the assembly of new molecules, such as a fat or protein. Pathways can also turn genes on and off, or spur a cell to move. [1] All genes are nothing but proteins, and hence the study of these proteins and the interaction between each other is an important tool for understanding the behavior of the cell machinery. Which is crucial for curing diseases. These study describe metabolic processes which break down carbohydrates, fats and proteins to create energy or show how cells respond to external stimuli.

To achieve this task, we have to understand biological networks based on protein-protein interactions. Bioinformatics has come up with a great amount of databases and tools that support analysts in exploring protein-protein interactions on an integrated level for knowledge discovery. [2] However, the vast number of diverse Bioinformatics resources poses an obstacle to the goal of understanding. Since graphic representation of protein interactions may highlight important substructures, e.g. protein complexes, visualization is more and more used to study the underlying graph structure of them. Although graphs are well known data structures, there are different open problems regarding protein interaction visualization. Complete knowledge of all direct and indirect interactions between proteins in a given cell would represent an important milestone towards a comprehensive description of cellular mechanisms and functions. Biologists could make use of these visualization tools for a range of tasks, including investigating inter pathway connectivity and retrieving details about  biological entities and interactions. Some of these tasks require an understanding of the hierarchical nature of elements within the pathway or the ability to make comparisons between multiple pathways.

In this Visualization, I introduce a method in which the user can navigate from one node (protein) to it’s connected node (protein) using a connected graph and tree data structure. Pathways are typically represented as directed graphs, where nodes in the graph represent biological “participants,” such as proteins or protein complexes, and where the edges represent a biological functionality, such as a biochemical reaction. Often different shapes for arrows and nodes are used to differentiate between the different types of molecules or reactions.
